Hello and welcome back.
The design principle that I want to talk about now is delegation.
This is one you'll see quite a bit in your design patterns.
So to start off delegation is the concept of one class delegating its behavior in other classes about
responsibility.
You don't want to do all the stuff by yourself.
So you say hey this other class is going to help me out when you delegate you're simply calling up some
class which knows what must be done right.
This definitely is going to increase your cohesiveness because now each class has a distinct responsibility.
You don't really care how it's actually going to get complete.
Again there's a sense to.
All you care about is that the class you're calling knows what it needs to do.
Delegates can be viewed as a relationship between objects where one object forward certain method calls
to another object called call its delegate.
And you see this again in many many programming languages IOW hand Objective C uses this principle quite
a bit with delegation and delegates
delegation is an extreme example of object composition.
So we just understood what object composition is.
It shows that you can always replace inheritance with object composition as a mechanism for code reuse.
It's really demonstrating this principle that we just talked about.
It means that you can use another object of another class as an instance variable and you can forward
messages to use that instance to the instance communicating with the instance.
It's better than inheritance for many cases it makes you think about each message forward the instances
of a known class rather than a new class.
It does not force you to accept all the methods of the superclass.
We talked about that being a disadvantage in tightly coupled you can provide only the methods that really
make sense.
So delegation is a good concept in that it also uses composition other advantages.
The main one is runtime flexibility that makes it easy to compose behaviors at runtime and to change
the way they are composed.
It's a good design choice only when it simplifies more than it complicates like everything.
If you overuse it or use it incorrectly it can definitely complicate things.
So how effective it will be definitely depends on the context and how much experience you have with
it.
It works best when it's used with design patterns and that's why we talk about it.
Some of the design parents that are going to use delegation the same pattern what happens here is the
state will delegate request to another object the state object that represents its current state strategy
design pattern would delegate a specific request to an object that represents a strategy for carrying
out the request.
So what you see with the strategy is again you see this runtime flexibility where things happen dynamically
visitor.
This is an operation that gets performed on each element of an object structure.
You enumerate through elements maybe in a list and it's always delegated to the visitor object getting
good cohesiveness.
Have the classes know what they're doing.
Do what you need to do.
You just can use object composition and have a relationship in that matter some other examples so assume
your class is called B and the delegated class is called a.
You can use delegation if you want to enhance a but a is final because it uses composition.
The equals and the hash code methods in Java.
It's another classic example of delegation in order to compare two objects for equality.
You can ask the class itself to do comparison instead of the Client class doing that check you delegate
that responsibility to the class for the comparison.
Event delegation is another example of delegation events.
When you click on mouse click on buttons or click out use a mouse click any kind of event usually through
3D interface.
That's always handled by usually specific classes handler classes right.
The handle classes are responsible for for handling button clicks for example and it's used in Java
quite a bit.
So that's the theory behind delegation.
Just do it here.
Just assigning responsibility for something specific to another object using that object through composition.
Let's look at a coding example in intelligence to see exactly how it is in Java.
Don't bring up the intelligence.
IDC are famous integrated development environment we're going gonna create a project delegation example
project.
It's a pretty basic.
Let's go and make it a command line.
We'll call it delegation.
Example
this is automatically going to create a main class one.
One bad thing about the template your price should just avoid but it does create our main class which
ought to change the name of so I don't get compilers and I always forget.
So just bring that up.
All right.
What I want to do in this example is I want to demonstrate delegation by using different responsibilities
for two classes.
I'm going to delegate responsibility from a printer class to a class that actually does the printing
right.
So the printer class is more generic.
The printer class is gonna be the delegator and the delegate itself is gonna be a real printer class
and then we'll have a main class that's going to use a printer object and then basically through object
composition the printer class is going to delegate its responsibility to print to the real printer class.
So it's a simple example but it gives you an idea of the separation so I'm gonna start off by creating
the delegate itself.
And again the delegate is just gonna be called real printer.
This is the actual printer that does the actual work.
And so this is gonna be the delegate.
So we'll just put that in comments just to remind you it's gonna be a simple class again.
It doesn't do much it just has a single method that prints out some information so it's the print method
really.
And for a lot of the code that I write in this class my method behavior is not really to do anything
important it's just gonna display output so let's just display output saying you know printing or something
like that.
So here we're still going to just say the delegate
and that's my entire class and I'm gonna actually create the or now which is my partner class
that delegates responsibility of printing to the real printer.
So when we create our delegator it has to have a composition relationship.
So we're gonna say this is the delegator and so it's gonna have a member variable for the real printer
and we're going to actually instantiate it right when we declare it.
We'll just say new real printer called the default constructor and that's about it.
Now the actual delegate which will assign the responsibility of printing to the real printer.
We'll also have a print method.
It will just basically assign that responsibility so we're gonna create the delegate here or use it.
I should say so.
Void print.
And I would put my braces on the left on the right here.
Depending on your coding style you know you can put it on the next line.
Sometimes is a better for beginners but I tend to get in the habit of that.
All this print method is going to do is it's gonna use my member variable object to call print and that's
the actual perform the delegation.
Right.
We're delegating responsibility of printing to our real printer object.
This printer class just contains the dollar delegation.
So now we can create our test our class through this.
And so to the outside world it looks like the printer is actually printing
the printer actually prints right.
When we write our public static Morton main method.
So our main method is just going to create a printer and print not too complicated.
So we're gonna create a printer instance say printer new printer and you see here we don't actually
have to utilize any polymorphism.
We're creating actual instance of the printer and then we're gonna just call print on it and then remember
the print method of the printer instance is gonna delegate its responsibilities to print through the
real printer.
Pretty straightforward right.
Printer block print calls print uses its composition its object has a relationship.
It's called print.
The actual implementation the delegate is in real printer
wood to build our class here and we can't create an object unless we have new in front of it.
So amateur hour here and now we should be able to build
and run this and you'll see basically that the delegator the delegate itself gets called by the delegator.
And so bear with me in the hours as these the first couple of things I'll try to limit these errors
I know something you get for a frustrate and say I should never make a mistake.
I'm not perfect so I do make mistakes.
I forgot to rename the class again to test or Java because we have our main method and test our public
class system in a public file.
So when I rename test or dot Java and I ran the program I now see that the delegate is displayed telling
me that the real printer responsibility is actually doing the implementation of the delegate.
Even though the outside world the tester class knows nothing about a real printer all noses about the
printer the responsibility is delegated to the real printer through the printer so that's the whole
delegation principle in a nutshell.
Again pretty straightforward you'll see it used in a lot of design patterns and a more complex way.
But again it's really just a has a relationship with the actual comp composed object doing responsibility
when it's being used inside the delegator.